----------------------------------------------
Redistributing Dante Infrastructure on Windows
----------------------------------------------

-------
Summary
-------

Dante applications running on windows rely on shared services for Discovery,
control and monitoring. Audinate provides redistributable modules
for Dante Discovery and for Dante Control and Monitoring (ConMon).

Component redistribution is done using the Windows Installer XML (WiX) Toolset.
The redistributable packages MUST be wrapped inside a WiX bundle for redistribution.

If the host application's installer is already a WiX bundle then the
redistributable MSI files can simply be added
as additional packages to the bundle payload. No further work is necessary.
 
If the host application installer is not a WiX bundle then the component 
packages must be wrapped into a new WiX bundle. The resulting executable can
then be added to the host application's installer package.

An example bundle description file is provided with the redistributable
components to show how MSI files can be wrapped into a bundle.
how this is done. No further work is necessary.
   
This document describes why bundling is necessary and how to create a new
ConMon wrapper bundle using the example code provided.

----------
Background
----------

Dante Discovery and Dante Control and Monitoring are core components
of the Dante system.
On windows, these are system service usable by one or more applications.
These components are shared resources and may be bundled with multiple application
installations. Reference counting is needed to ensure that the components
are installed only once and remain available until all applications have
been uninstalled.

The MSI infrastructure only supports reference counting at the component level.
Additional software is required to enable reference counting for complete
MSI packages. The Windows Installer XML Toolset (WiX)
provides this functionality via WiX bundles. A WiX Bundle can combine one
or more child
packages into a single installer, with reference counting for the children. 
Wix's MSI package reference counting relies on each bundle being uniquely
identifiable by having a unique "UpgradeCode". This is defined at bundle
compile time.

Audinate uses WiX bundles for component redistribution. Manufacturers
wishing to redistribute Dante components will need to create one or more
of their own WiX bundles, each with a unique UpgradeCode.

-------------------------
Creating a Wrapper Bundle
-------------------------

The simplest way to create a WiX wrapper bundle is to modify the
example Bundle definition provided with the redistributables:

  1. Install the latest version of WiX. Audinate recommends using v3.6 or
     newer. WiX is available from "http://http://wixtoolset.org/".

  2. Update the MANUFACTURER and PRODUCT_NAME fields as appropriate. 
  
  3. Optionally, update the VERSION field. By default this field contains the 
     current ConMon version. This value will work and can be updated in new 
	 versions if ConMon updates are subsequently included. The value can be
	 changed if desired to reflect the application version rather than the
	 ConMon version.

  4. Generate a new GUID for the bundle's UPGRADE_CODE. Once chosen, the same 
     value should be used for future updates to the bundles payload, such as
	 updating to a later version of ConMon as part of an application update.
	 There are many ways to obtain a new GUID:
     * Microsoft provides GUID generators as part of it's SDKs. 
     * Online generators also exist
 
  5. A batch file for compiling the example bundle is also provided as part
     of the redistributable. Run this script to generate the bundle.
   
  6. WiX bundles include an installation engine. If the output bundle needs
     to be signed, the bundle's internal engine must first be signed. The
	 WiX tool "insignia.exe" can be used to extract an engine from a bundle
	 before signing and to re-insert it after signing.

NOTE:
-----

Do *NOT* rename the Discovery and ConMon MSI package files. The MSI
system relies on consistent package names in order to support minor
upgrades. Renaming the package names will cause package upgrades to fail.
 
-----------------
Using WiX Bundles
-----------------

Installing Dante components via a bundle is as simple as running the
bundle executable.
Command line options are available for installation and uninstallation
without user interaction:

  * To install: pass "/install /quiet"

  * To uninstall: pass "/uninstall /quiet"

Installation requires elevated privileges to install. If the calling process is
not already elevated then a UAC prompt may be presented, even if "/quiet"
is passed on the command line. The information for this prompt comes from
the signing information in the bundle's internal engine.

If no options are specified, the bundle shows the user a dialog. The example
bundle configuration as provided by Audinate does not set a license text or
icon. Manufacturers who show the bundle may wish to further customise the
bundle to provide a cleaner look and feel to the user.

----------------------------------------------
Releasing Multiple Dante-enabled Applications
----------------------------------------------

Manufacturers with only a single Dante-enabled application only require a
single wrapper bundle. If multiple independently installable/uninstallable
Dante-enabled applications are released, then reference counting between
these applications is also required. In this case two options are available:

  1. Create a different wrapper bundle for each application and let WiX 
     handle reference counting.
   
  2. Create a single wrapper bundle for all the applications and use an
     an additional mechanism for referencing counting the bundle itself.




